# Applied Networking Research Prize 2026

https://www.irtf.org/anrp/

**Submit nominations for the 2026 award period of the Applied
Networking Research Prize until November 17, 2025**

(Please share this announcement with your colleagues)

The Applied Networking Research Prize (ANRP) is awarded to recognise
the best recent results in applied networking, interesting new
research ideas of potential relevance to the Internet standards
community, and upcoming people that are likely to have an impact on
Internet standards and technologies, with a particular focus on cases
where these people or ideas would not otherwise get much exposure or
be able to participate in the discussion.

We encourage nominations of researchers with relevant research
results, interesting ideas, and new perspectives. The award will offer
them the opportunity to present and discuss their work with the
engineers, network operators, policy makers, and scientists that
participate in the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and its
research arm, the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF). Both self- and
third-party nominations for this prize are encouraged.

The Applied Networking Research Prize (ANRP) consists of:

    - a cash prize of $1000 (USD)

    - an invited talk at the IRTF Open Meeting

    - a travel grant to attend a week-long IETF meeting (airfare,
      hotel, registration, stipend)

    - recognition at the IETF plenary an invitation to related social
      activities

In addition, prize winners may be offered additional travel grants to
attend future IETF and/or IRTF meetings. Such grants are made at the
discretion of the award committee, based on community feedback,
engagement with the community, and potential future impact.

Applied Networking Research Prize awards are made once per calendar
year. Each year, several winners will be chosen and invited to present
their work at one of the three IETF meetings during the following
year.

## How to Nominate

Nominations are for a single author of an original, peer-reviewed,
journal, conference or workshop paper that was recently published or
accepted for publication. The nominee must be one of the main authors
of the nominated paper. Both self-nominations (nominating one's own
work) and third-party nominations (nominating someone else, with their
permission) are encouraged.

The nominated paper should provide a scientific foundation for
possible future engineering work in the IETF, or research and
experimentation in the IRTF. It should analyse the behaviour of
Internet protocols in real-world deployments or realistic testbeds,
make an important contribution to understanding the scalability,
performance, reliability, security or capabilities of the Internet, or
otherwise be of relevance to ongoing or future IETF or IRTF
activities.

Nominations must state how the nominated paper relates to these goals.
They should describe how involving the nominee in the IETF and IRTF
process, and bringing them to an IETF meeting, would help to foster
the transition of the results and/or ideas into new IETF engineering
work or IRTF experimentation, or otherwise seed new activities that
will have an impact on the real-world Internet.

The goal of the ANRP is to foster the transitioning of research
results into real-world benefits for the Internet. Therefore,
applicants must indicate that they (or the nominee, in case of
third-party nominations) are available to attend at least one of the
IETF meetings in the following year.

Nominations are submitted via https://www.irtf.org/anrp/ and must
include:

    - the name and email address of the nominee;

    - a bibliographic reference to the published (or accepted)
      nominated paper;

    - a PDF copy of the nominated paper;

    - a statement that describes how the nominated paper fulfils the
      goals of the award and how the nominee would engage with the
      IETF and/or IRTF community;

    - a statement of the nominee's availability to present their work
      at the IETF meetings in during 2025;

    - a statement that the nominee accepts that the IRTF Intellectual
      Property Rights disclosure rules will apply to their award talk
      at the IRTF open meeting;

    - a brief biography or CV for the nominee; and

    - optionally, any other supporting information (link to nomineeâ€™s
      web site, etc.)

All nominees will be notified by email about the decision regarding
their nomination.

Nominations for the Applied Networking Research Prize (ANRP) are not
considered to be contributions to the IETF or IRTF. However, the
invited talks at the IRTF Open Meeting are considered to be
contributions and the IRTF Intellectual Property Rights disclosure
rules apply.

## Important Dates

   - Nominations close: November 17, 2025

   - Notifications: January 5, 2026

## Sponsors

The Applied Networking Research Prize is supported by the Internet
Society in coordination with the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF).
Additional corporate sponsorship is kindly provided by Comcast and NBC
Universal. If your organisation would like to support the ANRP, please
contact anrp@irtf.org.
